What is DotNet.
DotNet is open-source developer platform created by Microsoft. It is used for building a wide range of applications, from web and mobile applications to desktop and cloud services. 
Here are some key features and components of .NET:

Key Features
Cross-Platform: .NET can be used to build applications that run on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

Open Source: .NET is open-source, with its codebase available on GitHub.
Unified Platform: Provides a single platform for building various types of applications, such as web, mobile, desktop, and cloud-based applications.
Components of .NET

.NET Core:
A cross-platform framework for building modern, cloud-based, internet-connected applications. It is the foundation of .NET 5 and later versions, including .NET 6 and .NET 7.
Supports development on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

ASP.NET Core:
A framework for building web applications and services, cloud-based applications, and APIs.
Known for its high performance and ability to handle modern web development needs.

Xamarin:
Used for building mobile applications for iOS, Android, and other mobile platforms using C# and .NET.
Provides tools and libraries specifically for mobile app development.

Entity Framework Core:
An object-relational mapper (ORM) that enables .NET developers to work with a database using .NET objects.
Helps developers avoid most of the data-access code that they usually need to write.
Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and Windows Forms:

Used for building desktop applications for Windows.
.NET Standard:
A formal specification of .NET APIs that are intended to be available on all .NET implementations.
Provides a uniform set of APIs for creating libraries that can be used across different .NET platforms, such as .NET Core, Xamarin, and .NET Framework.
Development Tools

Visual Studio: An integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. It supports the development of .NET applications with tools for coding, debugging, and deployment.

Visual Studio Code: A lightweight, cross-platform code editor that supports .NET development with various extensions.

Usage Scenarios
Web Applications: Using ASP.NET Core for high-performance, scalable web applications.

Mobile Applications: Using Xamarin for cross-platform mobile applications.

Desktop Applications: Using WPF and Windows Forms for Windows desktop applications.

Cloud Services: Developing cloud-based applications and services that run on platforms like Microsoft Azure.

Microservices: Building microservices and containerized applications using .NET Core.

Basic Structuer Of DotNet Is - ->

using System;
namespace HelloWorld
{
  class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
        }
    }
}
